h1. Uber builder

The greatest form builder for Ruby on Rails.

h2. Why is it great?

 * Tabular forms
 * ul / li css forms
 * Easily extensible
 * Comes with a few useful extensions already
 * Comes with a FormBuilder compliant StaticBuilder to render any form built with it as static.

h2. How do I harness this greatness?

To create a basic form:
<pre><code>
<%= form_for @user do |f| %>
  <h2>User details</h2>
  <%= f.table do %>
    <%= f.manual :label => "Name" do %>
      <%= f.text_field :first_name %>
      <%= f.text_field :last_name %>
    <% end %>
    <%= f.text_field :age %>
  <% end %>
  
  <h2>Billing information</h2>
  <%= f.table do %>
    <%= f.text_field :address %>
    ... etc.
  <% end %>
<% end %>
</code></pre>

This form, out of the box, will be rendered as a table (with a class of form).  To make the labels line up, you'll want to add some CSS:

<pre><code>
table.form td.label {
  display:block;
  width:200px;
  font-weight:bold;
}
</code></pre>

You can also render ul / li like so:

<pre><code>
<%= form_for @user do |f| %>
  <h2>User details</h2>
  <%= f.ul do %>
    ...
  <% end %>
<% end %>
</code></pre>

The ul is rendered with a class of "form".  You'll need to add css styling to make it work.  Good luck with that.

h2. Buy one get one free

If you extract that to a partial, <code>_form.html.erb</code>, then you could use if as a static view or a form

<pre><code>
# render it as a form
<%= form_for @user do |f| %>
  <%= render :partial => "form", :locals => {:f => f} %>
<% end %>

# render it as static
<%= form_for @user, :builder => StaticBuilder do |f| %>
  <%= render :partial => "form", :locals => {:f => f} %>
<% end %>
</code></pre>

h2. I want to submit a patch

# Fork Uber-Builder
# Make your modification
# Add tests!
# Make sure all existing tests pass
# Send me a pull request on github

h2. Author

"Tim Harper":http://tim.theenchanter.com/

h2. Credits

Graeme Mathieson for writing the original "TabularFormBuilder":http://woss.name/2006/07/13/tabular-formbuilder-for-easily-creating-forms-in-rails/, which I used as a starting point for UberBuilder